Aqualung README
===============


Homepage: http://aqualung.sf.net


Aqualung is a music player for the GNU/Linux operating system. It
plays audio files from your filesystem and has the feature of
inserting no gaps between adjacent tracks.  It also supports high
quality sample rate conversion between the file and the output device,
when necessary.

Almost all sample-based, uncompressed formats (eg. WAV, AIFF, AU etc.)
are supported.  Files encoded with FLAC (the Free Lossless Audio
Codec), Ogg Vorbis and MPEG Audio (including the infamous MP3 format)
are also supported.  The program can play the music through OSS, ALSA
or the JACK Audio Connection Kit.

Aqualung supports the LADSPA 1.1 plugin standard.  You can use any
suitable plugin to enhance the music you are listening to.

Other features of the program: internally working volume and balance
controls (not touching the soundcard mixer), multiple skin support,
random seeking during playback, track repeat, list repeat and shuffle
mode (besides normal playback). It will come up in the same state as
it was when you closed it, including playback modes, volume & balance
settings, currently processing LADSPA plugins, window sizes, positions
& visibility, and other miscellaneous options.

In addition to all this, Aqualung provides a so-called Music Store
that is an XML-based music database, capable of storing various
metadata about music on your computer (including, but not limited to,
the names of artists, and the titles of records and tracks). You can
(and should) organize your music into a tree of
Artists/Records/Tracks, thereby making life easier than with the
all-in-one Winamp/XMMS playlist.

Please refer to the HTML documentation provided with the program for a
detailed description of features, usage tips and miscellaneous info.
You will find it in the doc/html/ directory (just open index.html with
Any Browser).

To compile the program, you will need to have the following libraries
installed. It is possible to compile the program without some of these
packages by sacrificing some of the program's functionality.


name				where to get it
----------------------------------------------------------------------
GTK+-2.0			http://www.gtk.org
libXML2				http://xmlsoft.org
liblrdf				http://plugin.org.uk/releases/lrdf
JACK				http://jackit.sf.net
libasound			http://www.alsa-project.org
libsndfile			http://www.mega-nerd.com/libsndfile
libFLAC				http://flac.sourceforge.net
libvorbis, libvorbisfile	http://www.xiph.org/ogg/vorbis
libMAD				http://www.underbit.com/products/mad
libsamplerate			http://www.mega-nerd.com/SRC


Compilation and installation instructions specific to Aqualung, as
well as usage information are covered by the HTML documentation in
greater detail.


Enjoy the program, and send your feedback to:
Tom Szilagyi <tszilagyi@users.sourceforge.net>
